.TH SILKPAGE 1 "2026-03-15" "silkpage 0.6.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
silkpage \- XML-based web publishing framework (MarkupWare)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B silkpage
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.PP
.B silkpage build
[\fB--site\fR \fISITE_DIR\fR] [\fB--out\fR \fIOUT_DIR\fR]
.PP
.B silkpage validate
[\fB--site\fR \fISITE_DIR\fR]
.PP
.B silkpage layout
[\fB--site\fR \fISITE_DIR\fR] [\fB--layout\fR \fILAYOUT_XML\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B silkpage
is an XML-based web publishing framework evolved from DocBook Website.
It transforms a directory of XML source pages and a
.I layout.xml
navigation descriptor into a standards-compliant XHTML 1.0 website.
.PP
Sites are defined by a
.I layout.xml
file at their root.  This file maps XML source pages to output HTML files,
defines the table of contents (TOC), and records metadata such as copyright,
stylesheet, and head/foot links.
.SH LAYOUT.XML STRUCTURE
.nf
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<layout xml:id="site-id">
  <config param="title" value="Site Title"/>
  <copyright>
    <year>2026</year>
    <holder role="http://example.com/">Author Name</holder>
  </copyright>
  <style src="css/site.css" type="text/css"/>
  <toc page="index.xml" filename="index.html">
    <tocentry page="docs/index.xml" dir="docs" filename="index.html"/>
  </toc>
  <notoc page="site/map.xml" dir="site/map" filename="index.html"/>
</layout>
.fi
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B build
Build the full site from XML sources.
Reads
.I layout.xml
and transforms each page to HTML in the output directory.
.TP
.B validate
Validate all XML source pages against the SilkPage schema.
.TP
.B layout
Print the TOC derived from
.IR layout.xml .
.SH PAGE FORMAT
Each page is a
.I .xml
file with a
.B <webpage>
root element:
.nf
<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<webpage id="page-id">
  <head>
    <title>Page Title</title>
    <summary>Short description.</summary>
  </head>
  <para>Content paragraph.</para>
</webpage>
.fi
.SH SITE DIRECTORY LAYOUT
.nf
site-root/
  layout.xml          Navigation and TOC descriptor
  index.xml           Home page source
  css/                Stylesheets
  img/                Images and SVG assets
  docs/               Documentation pages (XML source)
  feeds/              Atom/RSS feed sources
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SILKPAGE_HOME
Root directory of the SilkPage installation.
Defaults to the directory containing the
.B silkpage
launcher script.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR silkpage-build (1),
.BR xmllint (1)
.SH AUTHORS
SilkPage was created by MarkupWare (2004\(en2012) and is maintained by
Sina K. Heshmati as part of the singine platform.
.SH HOME PAGE
.I https://silkpage.markupware.com/
